# Itinerary Travel Recomendation System (ITRS)

Planning a trip involves numerous decisions and can be overwhelming, especially when balancing personal preferences and budget constraints. Travelers often spend hours researching destinations, accommodations, and activities to find the best fit. The Itinerary Travel Recommendation System (ITRS) aims to simplify this process by providing personalized travel recommendations based on user’s preferences on the category type, number of people, budget, days and destination, reducing the time and effort required for trip planning. ITRS offers users highly customized, AI-powered travel itineraries that use APIs, advanced recommendation algorithms, and Large Language Models (LLMs) to provide travelers with personalized recommendations. This system offers a sophisticated user experience to give itinerary recommendations by receiving the user preferences and requesting the API for responses to provide the day-to-day itinerary based on the user inputs. The system can recommend destinations based on the category and the number of days for the trip based on the budget. It utilizes a hybrid recommendation model that includes API responses, clustering and similarity matching techniques for the recommendations. It also includes a weather api that can be included in the itinerary generation that provides the itinerary based on the weather of the travel destination. Additional options for similar city recommendation and hotel recommendation which utilizes content based filtering method to give result by comparing the user input and data with a cosine similarity score. A Random Forest classifier model is used to determine the type of accommodation the user might prefer based on some key features identified. The system is evaluated using silhouette score and cosine similarity score along with some performance evaluation metrics for classification to provide personalized, relevant, and well-clustered hotel recommendations.

